


## Project Name => Event Management 
Platform used =>  Front end : React 
Backend       =>  Spring boot , MySQL Database.


###************Instruction to runproject***************##//
1.  first open the vs code and create react app by using command 
=>  npx create-react-app my-app - creates a new React application in a directory named

2.After start => npm start to start react app

3.Now you sucessfully created react app

4. Index .js file is your main file , dont do any changes in this file,

5.  after creating app you have to create a one component folder inside,   src folder
 6 . your all component are created inside this filder

 7.  now first create  home page write code for that like wise create all pages like this .
 8. In App.js folder give Routing to all the pages 

 9. The main important  feature of react is it provide a feature so that we can resue the component .
 10. after creating your all the required pages then is time for to connect front end with backend for that we used here "axios"


 ##******************************************************##

        open new terminal and select Command Prompt
        write => npm start   to run front end.


        ##***********************************************##




 11. 
 
 The front-end sends a request to the server. then this The request is goes to  a controller in the Spring Boot.

The controller processes the request and interacts with the service layer.

The service layer performs the business logic and interacts with the data access layer (database).
The data access layer retrieves or updates data from the database.
The response is generated by the service layer and sent back to the controller.
The controller formats the response and sends it back to the front-end.

the front-end  sends an HTTP request (e.g., GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) to a specific URL endpoint exposed by the Spring Boot project.

 This URL endpoint is typically handled by a controller that defines the request mapping and any associated request parameters.

Once the request is received by the controller, it processes it and interacts with the service layer. The service layer performs any business logic required by the request and interacts with the data access layer to retrieve or update data from the database.

After the data has been retrieved or updated, the service layer generates a response, which is then sent back to the controller. The controller is responsible for formatting the response (as JSON) and sending it back to the front-end as an HTTP response.



##********************Backend Instruction**************** ##

In Backend by using " Spring Initializr " is a web-based tool that helps quickly bootstrap a new Spring Boot project by generating a project structure with pre-configured dependencies and settings

So search in spring initializer in chrome and select project structure that you want to create.

Once we select  the configuration , Spring Initializr generates a project structure that includes the necessary files and directories, including a pom.xml file.

1. 
In Backend create a Controller , Service , Repository , and Entity  package and write your all code insie that package , 
2. 
Write your getter - setter , business logic in this packages 
3. 
In application. properties file



server.port = 8090
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/Event_Management
spring.datasource.username=root
spring.datasource.password=root

spring.jpa.properties.hibernate.dialect=org.hibernate.dialect.MySQL5InnoDBDialect

spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=update


change your database your name , password , and localhost and version according to your sytem .   

4. save your all the file data and write click on main file where @SpringBootApplication annotation is given and run the server 

5. if any error occur solve it 


## Database MySQL ##

In database i used JPA so that you not need to create tables in database 
just create 
1. create database Event_managament ;
2. when you run sprig boot application table get created automatically .


1. 
create table booking (
   booking_id INT NOT NULL,
  city VARCHAR(255) ,
  date VARCHAR(255) ,
  email VARCHAR(255) ,
  equipment VARCHAR(255) ,
  event VARCHAR(255) ,
  food VARCHAR(255) ,
  guest INT NOT NULL,
  name VARCHAR(255) ,
  status BIT(1) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (booking_id));


2. 
create table feedback (
  name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  email VARCHAR(255),
  message VARCHAR(255) ,
  mobileno VARCHAR(255) ,
  service VARCHAR(255),
  PRIMARY KEY (name));


3. 
  CREATE TABLE pricing (
  items_id INT NOT NULL,
  items VARCHAR(255) ,
  price DOUBLE NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (items_id));

4. 
  CREATE TABLE user (
  email   VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  address VARCHAR(255),
  city VARCHAR(255),
  name VARCHAR(255),
  password VARCHAR(255),
  phone VARCHAR(255),
  security_ans VARCHAR(255),
  security_ques VARCHAR(255),
  PRIMARY KEY (email));














